# BIOMD0000000212: Curien2009_Aspartate_Metabolism

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000212.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000212.git@20140916`

## Usage

Importing the model package.

`import BIOMD0000000212 as model`

Get the SBML string from the model

`print model.sbmlString`

If [python-libsbml](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-libsbml) bindings are
installed, the libsbml.SBMLDocument object is also accessible

`model.sbml`


# Model Notes


This a model described in the article:  
**Understanding the regulation of aspartate metabolism using a model based on measured kinetic parameters.**   
Curien G, Bastien O, Robert-Genthon M, Cornish-Bowden A, Cárdenas ML, Dumas R.
_Mol Syst Biol._ 2009;5:271. Epub 2009 May 19. PMID:
[19455135](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19455135) , doi:
[10.1038/msb.2009.29](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/msb.2009.29)  
**Abstract:**   
The aspartate-derived amino-acid pathway from plants is well suited for
analysing the function of the allosteric network of interactions in branched
pathways. For this purpose, a detailed kinetic model of the system in the
plant model Arabidopsis was constructed on the basis of in vitro kinetic
measurements. The data, assembled into a mathematical model, reproduce in vivo
measurements and also provide non-intuitive predictions. A crucial result is
the identification of allosteric interactions whose function is not to couple
demand and supply but to maintain a high independence between fluxes in
competing pathways. In addition, the model shows that enzyme isoforms are not
functionally redundant, because they contribute unequally to the flux and its
regulation. Another result is the identification of the threonine
concentration as the most sensitive variable in the system, suggesting a
regulatory role for threonine at a higher level of integration.

The limiting rates for the tRNA synthetase reactions, V_Lys_RS, V_Thr_RS and
V_Ile_RS, are all assigned a joined value, Vmax_AA_RS, to facilitate
reproduction of the results in the publication. To alter these rates
seperately these assignments have to be changed or removed.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2009 The BioModels Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html) .  
To cite BioModels Database, please use [Le Novère N., Bornstein B., Broicher
A., Courtot M., Donizelli M., Dharuri H., Li L., Sauro H., Schilstra M.,
Shapiro B., Snoep J.L., Hucka M. (2006) BioModels Database: A Free,
Centralized Database of Curated, Published, Quantitative Kinetic Models of
Biochemical and Cellular Systems Nucleic Acids Res., 34: D689-D691.](http://ww
w.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?tool=pubmed&pubmedid=16381960)


